Vearn: But I shall
grant you that chance.
These two will not intervene.
You have an opportunity
to defeat me at last.
That is your reward.
Shall we, then?
Surely you won't refuse me?
Well, of course not.
Even if you had
Mystvearn and the Reaper-
we're not gonna back down.
We've come this far and
won every battle
along the way.
Vearn: Very well.
Then let us begin.
I almost forgot.
Vearn: That man.
His ability to fight
was magnificent.
He truly lived up to
the legends, but sadly,
it seems his heart
was far too human.
At least let me
give him an end
befitting such an
impressive creature.
Everyone, run!
Popp: It's a Kafrizz spell!
Oh, no - Dad!
[shocked gasps]
Vearn: [chuckling]
Disappointed?
Or perhaps you had wished
to send him off yourself, boy?
[roaring]
W-Wait. Dai, don't!
[gasps]
Oh, my.
It seems your precious little
Hero was the first to fall.
And I don't believe any of you
have the power
necessary to harm me.
Crocodine [thought]: He took
down Dai with one blow?!
Hyunckel [thought]:
I've never seen such power.
Vearn: What a disappointment.
I even gave him a chance.
Instead you would
follow your father, Hero?
You guys - we need to move!
[charing yell]
I don't think so!
Kafrizz!
Now, Maam!
I won't be able to
hold him off for very long.
You have to heal Dai!
I'll try!
[alarmed breath]
[screaming]
Popp!
Both: Popp!
Hyunckel: No...
Okay... That hurt.
Did he really just burn
through enchanted clothing?
[struggling grunt]
And with such a tiny ember...
How's it possible
that his Kafrizz spell
is so much stronger
than my own?!
Kafrizz? Don't be absurd.
It was a much simpler
spell than that.
It's "Frizz."
A Frizz?!
I suppose no one told you.
The effect of a spell
can vary greatly
depending on the caster's
overall Magic Power.
Even though they're both
fire-type spells, in essence...
Any magic of mine
will be unfathomably
greater than yours.
W-What?!
Vearn: Such a
difference in strength.
You've managed to overwhelm
the Dark Army's forces
time and time again,
so I assumed you would be
a little more powerful,
but it seems I was wrong.
Even the boy, Dai,
all I had to do was
use a small fraction of
my Aura to match his attack.
Let me demonstrate.
Hyunckel: Super-pressurized
Dark Aura...
That's what he used on Dai?!
Right - if we really
want to win this battle,
then we must fight as one!
Maam, do you think
he's gonna be all right?
His heart's beating, but...
His body can only
take so much damage.
Maam: He was hit precisely where
he'd already been wounded.
Please... Just heal
him already!
I'm trying, but it won't work.
It's no use.
As much as I enjoy
watching you weaklings
struggle to summon
your courage...
you're only wasting time.
It seems like all
along I've miscalculated
the Hero and his party's
prowess in battle.
Even if Dai were still
amongst your ranks,
it would change nothing.
And so, as recompense
for my error,
allow me to destroy
all of you, painlessly.
This is my Kafrizz spell.
With its unimaginable power
and the graceful
form it takes on...
it has its own name
in the Underworld.
Kaiser Phoenix.
Hyunckel!
Hyunckel: My armor
should be able to
withstand it for a moment...
Hurry and heal Dai!
Another one?!
But, how?! He's too fast!
[pained screaming]
I can't heal him like this!
Everyone; we're going
on the offensive!
Dark King... It's time!
Hyunckel: Bloody... Scryde!
Hyunckel: [surprised breath]
Such optimism.
Revolting.
The darkness you kept
was far more magnificent.
[roaring]
[battle cry]
Curse you!
[pained scream]
Crocodine!
Look out!
No - Hyunckel!
Popp: Hey - over here!
My, my...
Popp [thought]: Here goes...
If I can't beat him with this,
then I'll be completely
out of spells to try.
So, please... work!
Medroa!
What?! No way...
This is Bounce.
Popp [thought]: I'll
have to cancel it out.
Popp!
Maam: Popp, are you okay?!
Wh-what now?
He managed to deflect
it with a Bounce spell.
Even Medroa doesn't
seem to work.
How did he conjure that
spell so quickly, anyway?!
Hyunckel: He's on
a different level.
Popp: Huh?
His power seems
to be limitless.
It's almost like
he can cast a spell
without even needing
the time to charge it up.
That lets him do two things in
the time it takes us to do one.
So, while we're attacking,
he can defend as he
conjures a counterstrike.
Hey, Maam. Can you
take Dai, too?
Huh?
Get them to Crocodine.
Then we'll Zoom outta here.
It's the only
option we have left.
Are you sure?
Popp: There's nothing we can
do against a force like him.
No wonder he's called
the God of the Underworld.
We're being toyed with-
like he's holding
back or something.
If we really want
to fight him,
we'll need to regroup first...
or we're done for.
Okay, then.
C'mon. Here goes.
Bye, old man!
Popp: Zoom!
Popp: What?! No!
[pained groans]
What was that?!
Killvearn: Poor things.
They're just the picture
of hopelessness, aren't they?
Do you understand, now?
There's no one who
can escape the Dark King.
Killvearn: [chuckling]
The palace is shielded by
King Vearn's Magic Power.
You won't be able to
escape it with a Zoom spell.
Killvearn: Sure, you can
move within the force field.
But while the
shield is active
no one may enter... or leave.
No one, that is,
except for certain
warriors of the Dark Army.
Killvearn: If you'd tried
to fight instead of running,
you might have lasted
just a little bit longer.
[amused chuckle]
But I guess
it's all the same.
Either way, there's
nothing you can do.
Piroro: You're all done for!
You're all toast!
[disagreeing chirps]
What's your problem?
I said that you're all
toast, toast, toast!
[disagreeing chirps]
Piroro:
You're! All! Done! For!
Gomechan: [defiant chirps]
They're quite right.
Now, to finish the battle.
I must have made contact...
A minute ago...
with my Refractor Fist!
Right!
Back when everyone
attacked all at once!
Killvearn: You landed
a hit. What a shock.
Maam [thought]: It worked!
That means the Dark King
is still a living creature.
If I can hit him with
my Refractor Fist...
Well, care to try?
It's a one-in-a-million
chance of success, girl.
My servants won't intervene and
if I happen to be wounded...
My attacks will become slower.
But, surely you know that
Darklings can regenerate.
If you don't hurry,
you might lose your chance.
Maam [thought]:
We can't escape,
and I'm the only one
left who can fight...
Vearn: What will you do?
Maam [thought]:
I have to try!
Don't!
Slow down.
We're not going to win
this thing by going in alone.
Killvearn: Very sharp.
The little Mage may
even be halfway useful.
You were toying with me...
You could regenerate any time!
You are so cruel.
Maam: You enjoy playing
with us like that, don't you?
Of course I do.
To obtain such
immeasurable power
and be able to use it
however you wish in life...
Is that not pleasurable?
Would you not feel superior?
What do you mean?
Power is the purest and
most beautiful law of
the natural world.
"Survival of the fittest"
is how all creatures live.
From Darklings to Dragons.
Only you humans use
your so called "reason"...
to deny the truth.
But power is the only thing
that matters in the end.
But how can you decide that?
Before you, monsters and
humans lived in peace.
The Surface World isn't bound
by the same laws as yours!
[startled breath]
You are still
missing the point.
The truth is that
peace can only ever be
maintained by the
enforcement of a great power.
A power...
Wielded only by the gods!
Vearn: My home,
the Underworld,
is a realm that exists deep
in the earth below your own.
Everywhere you look...
nothing but barren
rock and boiling magma.
What's more, the sun,
the source of all life,
cannot shine below.
The sun...
Such a magnificent power.
But the gods granted the sun
and the Surface World
to the humans,
banishing Darklings and
Dragons to the Underworld...
simply because the humans
were that much weaker.
Vearn: If that was justice,
then our power
is justice, as well.
So I waited.
Thousands of years
passed in that time.
All while I honed my skills to
someday annihilate your world.
Soon, it will be no more.
And the sun will
finally shine...
I will bring it
to the Underworld.
When that happens...
I...
I shall become the
true god of the realm.
And then, the great
folly of the old gods...
will be corrected at last.
Popp [thought]:
W-We can't win...
He's thinking on a
whole different scale.
For thousands of years,
he's seen the Surface World
as nothing but a
weight over his own.
We're just...
We're just mere humans.
We don't have a
hope of beating him.
You've finally given up.
This was more
enjoyable than I expected.
You've done so well,
Heroes of the Surface.
I'm not giving up yet.
Both: D-Dai?!
Dai: Even if everyone
else in the world has,
I still won't give up.
Dai: I'll never give up!
What impressive vitality.
Could you repeat
that, young man?
I'm sure I misheard you.
I said I'm not giving up.
Even if there's
really no hope left.
I'm going to keep on fighting
because it's what
I was meant to do.
So, it seems I heard you
correctly the first time.
Even after coming face
to face with my power,
you still won't
back down from this.
Dai: I know exactly how
overwhelming your power can be.
But that doesn't
matter anymore.
Dai: You said that power is
justice, but you're wrong.
It's not.
That's not what
Grampa taught me...
Or what Master Avan
taught me...
Or what Dad taught me
about justice...
You're wrong about
every single thing!
All: Dai!
Mytsvearn [thought]:
They stand...
After they were on
the verge of death?!
As you wish.
Such a persuasive soul,
one that gives
your weak friends
the strength to
somehow defy me.
But your soul will lead
them to their demise.
If you wish to change my mind,
you'll have to reveal just
how powerful you really are.
Then here we go...
This is all of my power!
Vearn: Kaiser Phoenix!
Avan Strash!
C'mon! Work!
Too slow.
Dai!
Mystvearn: King Vearn!
Vearn [thought]: He was able
to counter my second attack.
And not only that,
but his force overpowered
my Kaiser Phoenix.
Very well!
Boom spells?!
Whoa! It's... like
a storm of Boom spells!
Vearn's using weaker spells
and fighting with numbers!
Each one of these is as
destructive as a Kaboom spell.
No, Dai!
Mystvearn: King Vearn,
perhaps it's time to put an end
to these games and let
us all join the battle.
Vearn: What? Ridiculous.
You actually believe
the boy will survive
this kind of attack?
Dai, no!
[roaring]
Now...
Take this!
[overpowered roar]
Mystvearn: King Vearn!
Narrator: After surviving
Dai's Avan Strash,
King Vearn summons
a legendary weapon,
then delivers a
counterstrike powerful enough
to shake the heavens
and the earth...
And once he's driven
back his adversaries,
the Dark King unleashes
his finishing blow.
In the face of
almost certain doom,
is there any hope
for Dai and his friends?
Find out next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Unlikely Savior".